I have very low vision
in comparison to the average person.
It is often very painful
to get through the day
because of the extreme light sensitivity
and the deterioration
of the health of my eye.
Jehovah gives me the knowledge
that I cannot expect this to go away.
But he never lets me forget
that we’re always in it together.
Jehovah does not see a disability in me,
but he sees someone
who is capable of bringing praise to him,
someone who is also capable
of helping others.
In the world in which we live,
people that are disadvantaged
feel like they’re not useful,
but here Jehovah has allowed
someone who is unable to see
to be able to be equipped
to help other individuals,
using his Word.
Like so many of us,
Rachel, Wayne, and Thabo
appreciate the hard work
of “the faithful and discreet slave”
to provide the spiritual food we all need.
Technologies used by those who are blind
and visually impaired keep advancing.
Under the direction of the Writing Committee
of the Governing Body,
our organization uses these advances
to make lifesaving spiritual food
more available in formats
the blind can use.
In this report,
we will briefly look at the history
of publications for the blind
as well as new tools that are very helpful
for our blind brothers and sisters
and those they reach in the field.
But first,
let us consider what the difference is
between being visually impaired
and being blind.
Those who are visually impaired
can see to a limited degree
and may be able to function
outside their home
without the use of a cane or a guide.
Those who are visually impaired
may be able to read
by using a large-print publication
or by increasing the text size
of an electronic device.
However, those who are blind
are not able to see well enough
to function outside their home
without the use of a cane or a guide.
They may be totally blind,
or they may be able
to detect only shadows
or very bright lights.
An estimated 43 million people worldwide
are blind.
That includes more than 13,000
of our dear brothers and sisters.
Many more of our brothers and sisters
are among the hundreds of millions
who are considered to be visually impaired.
What is our history
of providing for their spiritual needs?
Printing was first done
on a manually operated machine
that embossed one sheet at a time.
Over time, the equipment improved.
This made it easier to produce
complete Watchtowers,
books, booklets, and tracts.
In 1988,
we produced the first edition
of the New World Translation
of the Holy Scriptures
in English braille.
When I first started to pioneer,
there was no braille Bible.
To be honest with you,
it was an unexpected gift
to be able to have it,
to read it at my disposal whenever I want to,
and also to be able
to uplift and encourage others.
Today, our organization prints braille
in 48 languages.
In addition,
we are also helping those who are blind
but who cannot read or write braille.
A few years ago,
we published the brochure
Learn to Read Braille.
It has already been produced
in ten languages,
and more languages will be coming.
In recent years,
new tools have given
blind and visually impaired readers
more options
for reading and studying the Bible.
Starting in 2009,
The Watchtower  was produced
as an electronic braille file,
and since 2014,
we’ve been making these files
available on our website.
These files can be downloaded
on a braille computer called a notetaker
that shows the reader
the braille dots per line.
Well, let’s say
if we want to take Enjoy Life Forever!,
it’s 12 volumes to be able
to have the whole publication.
Now you have it on a little machine.
It’s very nice because you can take
your electronic device with you, then,
wherever you need to go.
A screen reader is a digital program
you can install
on an electronic device or computer.
It can read aloud what is on the screen,
helping the user understand
and even navigate the page or site.
A feature that has received
a lot of positive feedback
is the use of alt text,
short for alternative text.
These are more extensive descriptions
of the pictures in our publications.
Page 16 image:
a sister and her young daughter
washing clothes by hand.
A brother and his wife bring them a meal.
The first time
I encountered picture descriptions,
it was so nice.
I really felt part of the congregation.
I can confidently comment on the picture,
and the feedback that I’ve always gotten
from the brothers and sisters
is that the descriptions bring out the points
that they didn’t even realize
with their eyes.
And hearing such comments from them
always gives me joy
that I’m a source of encouragement to them.
Braille and screen readers
have been a spiritual lifeline
for these brothers and sisters.
But today,
we receive
so much spiritual food through videos.
So, what’s being done
to make sure
that the blind and visually impaired
have access to videos as well?
In 2020 at the regional convention,
we provided the first videos
with audio descriptions,
which are spoken phrases added to a video
to explain what is seen on the screen.
Let us just put ourselves
in the shoes of a blind person
to see the difference
audio descriptions can make.
Nighttime in the king’s bedroom,
wind blows the curtains.
He stirs in his sleep.
Flashes of himself crownless;
an immense bright image;
a fireball crushes the feet.
I felt like “the faithful and discreet slave”
was saying to me,
“We are going to give you one less thing
that you have to fight for
to understand and figure out on your own.”
I’m getting the teaching point now.
Now the person sitting next to you
doesn’t have to describe
to you what’s going on.
You’re independent again.
I love audio descriptions,
and nowadays it’s a bit difficult for me
to watch a video
that does not have descriptions.
It also helps when it comes
to sharing with the other person
the lesson that I have learned
from that video.
Jehovah loves me,
and he compensates
for my absence of sight with something
that he knows I can truly benefit from.
Today, we are producing videos
with audio descriptions
in 92 languages.
These descriptions have proved very useful,
and they have had another unexpected benefit.
What is it?
Although originally prepared for the blind,
we discovered that brothers and sisters
who cannot afford to download
the video format of the convention program
are benefiting as well.
They listen to the audio descriptions,
and these descriptions
give them a clearer understanding
of the scenes in our videos.
In Psalm 23, David wrote:
“Jehovah is my Shepherd.
I will lack nothing.”
Like David, we all feel
that Jehovah, as a loving Shepherd,
guides and protects us.
We feel that especially
when we can read the Bible
and apply its lessons
using spiritual food in print,
audio, and video.
Through his organization,
Jehovah ensures that all of us,
including those who are
blind and visually impaired,
can confidently say:
“I will lack nothing.”